---
layout: post
title: "SuperTux 0.6.0"
date: 2018-12-23 21:10:00
---

The SuperTux team is excited to announce the availability of the stable release 0.6.0 after almost two years of development.

Changes:
* Complete redesign of the icy world and forest world (Thank you, RustyBox and Serano)
* Complete revamp of our rendering engine, the game should be much faster than it was previously
* We now support OpenGL 3.3 Core as well as OpenGL ES 2.0, thus allowing SuperTux to be run on the Raspberry Pi, and potentially WebGL.
* A few graphics have been updated, and effects have been added
  * The save bell was reworked (Thanks to Raghavendra "raghukamath" Kamath!)
   * Improved big Tux graphics and animations (Thanks to Alzter)
   * Various effects and shaders (Thanks to Grumbel)
* Support for right-to-left languages through vector fonts. This will also fix a few non-ASCII characters, which often caused problems before in translations
* A lot of other under-the-hood changes and bugfixes
* Official Linux binaries

**Note:** If you've previously used torches in your levels and their positioning is off, please re-position them. We had to re-align their bounding boxes in order to fix bugs with their flame.

If you'd like to help with SuperTux development, you can find more resources in our wiki at <https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/wiki>. Please [get in touch with us](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/wiki/Contact). The fastest way is usually [IRC](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/wiki/IRC), but please wait if you don't get an answer immediately. We urgently need more graphic designers and developers for future releases, help in these areas would be really appreciated.

A big thanks to all of our translators who worked very hard to translate the new strings in time.

Source tarballs and builds for Windows (32-bit and 64-bit), OS X/macOS and Linux (via AppImage)
are available on the [Downloads page]({{ site.baseurl }}/download.html), or via
[GitHub](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/releases/tag/v0.6.0).
