---
layout: post
title: "SuperTux 0.7.0 BETA 1"
date: 2021-12-29 00:00:00
---

The SuperTux Team is ecstatic to announce the first beta release of v0.7.0. This is perhaps one of the largest facelifts to the base game since the introduction of Milestone 2! It features completely redone worlds, new artwork, new music; all from the ground up. As such, it may feel entirely different from the previous game, but the overall premise remains true to its roots.

It is a bit difficult to cram it all in one snippet over the years of this release's development; so we'll try to keep it brief.

Some of the most significant changes include:

- A complete overhaul of World 1 (Thanks to RustyBox)
- A complete overhaul of World 2, Rooted Forest (Thanks to RustyBox, Servalot, bruhmoent and FrostC)
- New assets for Tux, Badguys, Backgrounds, Tilesets, and other Miscellaneous (Thanks to RustyBox, FrostC, bruhmoent and FilipOK)
- Complete revamps for Gold Bomb, Igel, Spidermite (Tarantula), etc. (Thanks to RustyBox for graphics, MatusGuy for code)
- Complete revamp for Ghoul. (Thanks to RustyBox for graphics, weluvgoatz for code)
- Add new badguys (and an NPC!): Granito (& Big Granito), Root Sapling, Corrupted Big Granito, etc. (Thanks to RustyBox for graphics, MatusGuy for code)
- New music (Thanks to SnugglyBun, Servalot, RodirodDude, bruhmoent, and Chitan)
- Overhauled Bonus Island 1 (Thanks to FrostC, Servalot, weluvgoatz, RustyBox, bruhmoent, Sevenberry, and tylerandari12)
- Revamped Level Editor and QoL changes (Thanks to Swagtoy, Tobbi)
- New Cutscenes (Thanks to Narre, RustyBox and FrostC)
- Android Revival & Improvements (Thanks to MatusGuy, Swagtoy)
- Tux sliding, rock powerup, crawling, buttjump improvements (Thanks to weluvgoatz)
- Tux dolls to unlock worlds (Thanks to provigz)
- New Yeti Boss Fight (Thanks to MatusGuy)
- New Ghost Tree (Thanks to Hypernoot, RustyBox for graphics, MatusGuy for polishing, FilipOK for hit sound)
- Item Pocket (Thanks to MatusGuy)
- Improved Autotile (Thanks to mrkubax10, tylerandari12, Eauix)
- CMake Refactor + making the game actually build (Thanks to Swagtoy, MatusGuy, tobbi)
- Glinting badguys (Thanks to bruhmoent)
- Flatpak builds (Thanks to Swagtoy)
- Squirrel default arguments (Thanks to provigz)
- Switch to Simplesquirrel (Thanks to MatusGuy and provigz)
- Display music metadata in the level editor (Thanks to James C. De Ricco)

And so so so many more from a ton of contributors, that probably all got missed!

Thank you all for the incredible patience, considering it took us a long time to get here. Please report any and all bugs you come across, especially those you consider game breaking, and also help with translation on the Transifex. We'll quickly iron them out and will be available for a little while to crush any nasty issues. We have entered a feature freeze so no new feature requests can slip in for 0.7, especially those which change strings. You can also hop in our IRC and  Discord (on the README), which are both bridged to each other as well to talk with us!

And of course... Thank YOU, from the bottom of our hearts, for keeping this game alive! -- SuperTux Team

## Download

More info and downloads at the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/releases/tag/v0.7.0-beta.1)!

## Development Summary

Check out our latest Development Summary video to get a glimpse of some of the main new features!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PczyNWV8gI0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<iframe title="SuperTux: Development Summary for v0.7.0! (+ Developer Commentary)" width="560" height="315" src="https://peertube.linuxrocks.online/videos/embed/8c252008-b1c8-4551-acc2-b3e9c90539d3" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="" sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-popups allow-forms"></iframe>
