---
layout: post
title: "SuperTux 0.7.0"
date: 2026-03-14 23:27:00
---

The SuperTux Team is pleased to announce the stable release of version 0.7.0! You may wonder what took us so long to develop another release. Over the past couple of years, we've made dozens of changes and improvements to the game, bringing it to a much more polished state. As such, this is likely one of the biggest releases since Milestone 2! Despite that, SuperTux remains the trusted run'n'jump game as you know well... but with this update, it should bring it into a much more finishable state moving forward.
 
Here are some of the most notable changes since the previous release:
- Brand new sprites and abilities for Tux: slope sliding, strong buttjumping, rock rolling, and crawling
- Revamped graphics for most backgrounds, tiles, objects, and badguys
- Complete level design + story rework of the Story Mode, Revenge in Redmond, and Bonus Island I
- Not only new NPCs (e.g: Granito) and enemies (e.g: DiveMine, Fish, and Corrupted Granito), but also revamps for numerous enemies such as: GoldBomb, Igel, Ghoul, and both bosses (Yeti and Ghost Tree)
- New music
- Level editor revamp
- Local multiplayer mode
- New gameplay mechanics such as glinted enemies, keys, the item pocket, and unlockable bonus islands via Tux Dolls
- Many internal improves and code refactoring, such as moving to SimpleSquirrel
- Improvements to compilation/porting, including CMake refactor, Android revival, and Flatpak builds
 
And many more changes and bugfixes not listed here! Really, check the game out to see all the changes!
 
Thank you so much for the patience everyone had regarding this update. Feel free to report any bugs to our GitHub. We appreciate everyone's support in keeping this game alive! Happy SuperTuxing!
-- The SuperTux Team
 
**Android NOTE**: For most modern Android phones, you'll likely want **armv8a**.
**Save NOTE**: If you played during the betas for v0.7.0, note that your saves for story mode will not work right away, as they are saved as **.old** files, which can be manually converted into the new save format, but we encourage you to start a fresh save as we've polished some bits. Of course, old saves for story mode will also be invalidated, but will be backed up as well as if you still want those.

## Download

More info and downloads at the [GitHub release page](https://github.com/SuperTux/supertux/releases/tag/v0.7.0)!

## Development Summary

Check out our latest Development Summary video to get a glimpse of some of the main new features!

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/PczyNWV8gI0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>
<iframe title="SuperTux: Development Summary for v0.7.0! (+ Developer Commentary)" width="560" height="315" src="https://peertube.linuxrocks.online/videos/embed/8c252008-b1c8-4551-acc2-b3e9c90539d3" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="" sandbox="allow-same-origin allow-scripts allow-popups allow-forms"></iframe>
